Style model pages added (#650)
carbon-design-system/ibm-dotcom-library-website: src/pages/guidelines/ibm-dot-com-style-models/overview.mdx

---
title: IBM.com style models
description: IBM.com style models provide a design framework that defines the foundational and structural elements of IBM.com pages in order to establish consistency and coherency across users' journeys in a scalable way.
tabs: ['Overview', 'Style model list']
---
<PageDescription>

IBM.com style models provide a design framework that defines the foundational and structural elements of IBM.com pages in order to establish consistency and coherency across users&rsquo; journeys in a scalable way.

</PageDescription>

<AnchorLinks>

<AnchorLink>Our vision</AnchorLink>

> <AnchorLink>Style model</AnchorLink>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<AnchorLink>Style models</AnchorLink>
```

> <AnchorLink>Using style models</AnchorLink>

Reviewer: Should Style be capital?

Author: Let's keep it in all lower case for now.

The ultimate end result is that the user should be instantly familiar with pages that solve similar problems.

<Title>3. Reflect users&rsquo; journeys</Title>

The design should reflect the progress the user is making towards the end goal of purchasing and using a product to solve their problems and achieve objectives. The style models reflect  The design changes across toucpoints and their underlying style models should be coherent with each other, and reflect the progress the user is making.

<Row>
<Column colMd={12} colLg={12}>

![Reflecting journey progression](./images/journey-progression.png)

</Column>
</Row>

## Style model
A style model defines the foundational structure and elements of a given page to best serve the primary user intent of that page.

Each style model is based on the user intent for a given page and defines the most optimal use of the foundational design elements—grid, color theme, type scale, spacing, layout, and screen regions—to ensure that the user is successful in achieving their goals (user intent).

<Title>Primary user intent</Title>

> For any given page, there is a overarching user intent—we call this the primary user intent of a page. For an example, learn is the primary user intent for the early learn search capture page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For any given page, there is an overarching user intent—we call this the primary user intent of a page. For example, learn is the primary user intent for the early learn search capture page.
```

<Title>Grid usage</Title>

> The grid system creates the fundamental structure of a page. There are many different ways to use the IBM 2X Grid, and the style models narrow down the available options to a few optimized.

Reviewer: "...to a few optimized" what? 
Layouts
grid modes(?)
optimized for editorial layouts?

Author: How about "a few optimized structures"?

<Row>
<Column colMd={12} colLg={12}>

![Grid usage examples](./images/grid-usage.png)

</Column>
</Row>

<Title>Primary color theme</Title>

> In IBM.com style models, the color theme is a major way to create the sense of progression over the user&lsquo;s journey. In general, the white theme is used for pre-purchase pages, the Gray 10 theme for the purchase and the post-purchase experience (My IBM). For the products, color themes are not specified in order to accomodate each product&lsquo;s needs the best as the user intents for the product experience can vary vastly. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In IBM.com style models, the color theme is a major way to create a sense of progression over the user&lsquo;s journey. In general, the white theme is used for pre-purchase pages, and the gray 10 theme is used for the purchase and the post-purchase experience (My IBM). 

Within products, the style model does not specify a color theme because the user intent within each product experience can vary vastly.
```

<Row>
<Column colMd={12} colLg={12}>

![Reflecting journey progression](./images/color-themes.png)

</Column>
</Row>

<Title>Text sizes and spacing</Title>

> Different user intent requires different type scale and spacing. For an example, for the early learn page, which requires heavy reading of long-form content, benefits from larger text sizes and more open spaces. On the other hand, the checkout experiences are etter served with smaller text sizes and tighter spaces.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Different user intent requires different type scale and spacing. For example, the early learn page, which requires heavy reading of long-form content, benefits from larger text sizes and more open spacing. On the other hand, the checkout experiences are better served with smaller text sizes and tighter spacing.
```

<Row>
<Column colMd={8} colLg={8}>

![Reflecting journey progression](./images/type-scales-spacing.png)

</Column>
</Row>

<Title>Layout and screen regions</Title>

> Layout theme lays out the overall layout for any given user intent by defining the regions for navigational elements, main content, supporting content, and key visual anchors placements. By using these layouts, the the user will not have to learn how to use each page as they land on it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Layout themes define the overall layout for any given user intent by defining the regions for navigational elements, main content, supporting content, and key visual anchor placement. By using these layouts consistently the user will be more familiar with the page structure and will not have to learn how to use each page as they complete their journey.
```

<Row>
<Column colMd={8} colLg={8}>

![Reflecting journey progression](./images/screen-region-examples.png)

</Column>
</Row>

## Using the style models

There are currently 9 user intents identified so far, each with an associated style model. As a new page is designed, this should be the starting point.

1. Find the matching user intent of the page you are designing from the [list](./style-model-list#user-intents-and-style-models).
2. Use the associated style model to design your page.

<Title>Feedback</Title>

> These user intents and style models are not locked in stone—these are intended to evolve over time. If for any reason, the existing user intents or style models do not meet the needs, please contact the Digital Design System team via the #ibm-digital-design slack channel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These user intents and style models are not set in stone—they are intended to evolve over time. If for any reason, the existing user intents or style models do not meet the user needs, please contact the Digital Design System team via the #ibm-digital-design slack channel.
```

Author: Committed a change that reflects this. Thank you.

> These user intents and style models are not locked in stone—these are intended to evolve over time. If for any reason, the existing user intents or style models do not meet the needs, please contact the Digital Design System team via the #ibm-digital-design slack channel.

Reviewer: We might need @JennySanchez to help us link to the slack channel here! I don't know how 😅

Author: A good catch. Link committed.

---
title: IBM.com style models
description: IBM.com style models provide a design framework that defines the foundational and structural elements of IBM.com pages in order to establish consistency and coherency across users' journeys in a scalable way.
tabs: ['Overview', 'Style model list']
---
<PageDescription>

IBM.com style models provide a design framework that defines the foundational and structural elements of IBM.com pages in order to establish consistency and coherency across users&rsquo; journeys in a scalable way.

</PageDescription>

<AnchorLinks>

<AnchorLink>Our vision</AnchorLink>
<AnchorLink>Style models</AnchorLink>
<AnchorLink>Using style models</AnchorLink>

</AnchorLinks>

## Our vision

> Our vision is that every visitor to IBM.com has a productive, efficient and delightful experience. IBM.com is a collection of highly functional, versatile, and diverse content and experiences. It serves different audience groups and their needs, in different industries and geographic regions, and covers a crucial portion of our users&lsquo; journeys.

Author: Fixed.

Here are the three principles that we set up to reach our vision of helping our users in the best way possible.

<Title>1. The experience is the product</Title>

> The user&lsquo;s experience along the journey—spanning from the user&lsquo;s initial research through decision making, purchase, management, and all the way to the actual use of the given product—is becoming a core aspect of any product. 

Author: Fixed.

<Row>
<Column colMd={12} colLg={12}>

![User journeys](./images/journey-non-linear-dark.png)

</Column>
</Row>

<Title>2. Drive consistency around user intents</Title>

> As more products are offered as services or components of larger ecosystems and platforms, users are increasingly traversing journey touch points in non-linear ways, which demands a even higher level of consistency and coherency across journeys.

Author: How about "parts of ..."?

> As more products are offered as services or components of larger ecosystems and platforms, users are increasingly traversing journey touch points in non-linear ways, which demands a even higher level of consistency and coherency across journeys.

Author: Updated.

> As more products are offered as services or components of larger ecosystems and platforms, users are increasingly traversing journey touch points in non-linear ways, which demands a even higher level of consistency and coherency across journeys.

Author: committed an update with "... parts of ..."

> We drive consistency without sacrificing usability by basing the design of a page on the given user intent. For the same user intent, whether it&lsquo;s learning, trying, or buying, the solution should be consistent in order to accommodate the user&lsquo;s non-linear journey. This does not mean that everything should be the same—IBM.com style models define foundational and structural elements, while leaving the details to you, the maker.

Author: Fixed.

The ultimate end result is that the user should be instantly familiar with pages that solve similar problems.

<Title>3. Reflect users&rsquo; journeys</Title>

> The design should reflect the progress the user is making towards the end goal of purchasing and using a product to solve their problems and achieve objectives. The style models reflect  The design changes across toucpoints and their underlying style models should be coherent with each other, and reflect the progress the user is making.

Author: This whole paragraph, upon reading again, reads really weird. Committed an update. Please let me know if this works better.

<Row>
<Column colMd={12} colLg={12}>

![Reflecting journey progression](./images/journey-progression-dark.png)

</Column>
</Row>

> ## Style model

Author: This section defines the construct of the style model. Should I add "The" or "Definition of "?

> ## Style model

Reviewer 2: I like "Definition of..." or maybe "What are style models?" if you wanted to be conversational.

> ## Style model

Author: Committed a change. Wait for a new build to check please. Thank you!!!!!!

A style model defines the foundational structure and elements of a given page to best serve the primary user intent of that page.

Each style model is based on the user intent for a given page and defines the most optimal use of the foundational design elements—grid, color theme, type scale, spacing, layout, and screen regions—to ensure that the user is successful in achieving their goals (user intent).

<Title>Primary user intent</Title>

> For any given page, there is an overarching user intent—we call this the primary user intent of a page. For example, learn is the primary user intent for an early learn search capture page even though the page mae have other secondary user intents such as navigation.

Reviewer 2: Typo: change **mae** to **may**

Author: Thank you for catching this! I just committed a fix.

> For any given page, there is an overarching user intent—we call this the primary user intent of a page. For example, learn is the primary user intent for the early learn search capture page.

Author: How about this?

For any given page, there is an overarching user intent—we call this the primary user intent of a page. For example, learn is the primary user intent for an early learn search capture page even though the page mae have other secondary user intents such as navigation.

I think as long as people understand the distinction between primary and secondary user intents, it's okay if they don't know what early learn page is.

---
title: IBM.com Style Models
description: IBM.com Style Models provide a design framework that defines the foundational and structural elements of IBM.com pages in order to establish consistency and coherency across users' journeys in a scalable way.
tabs: ['Overview', 'Style Model List']
---
<PageDescription>

IBM.com Style Models provide a design framework that defines the foundational and structural elements of IBM.com pages in order to establish consistency and coherency across users' journeys in a scalable way.

</PageDescription>

<AnchorLinks>

<AnchorLink>Our vision</AnchorLink>

> <AnchorLink>Style Model</AnchorLink>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<AnchorLink>Style models</AnchorLink>
```

Suggesting change in capitalization, and maybe plural here

> <AnchorLink>Using Style Models</AnchorLink>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<AnchorLink>Using Style models</AnchorLink>
```

Same suggestion as above

</AnchorLinks>

## Our vision

Our vision is that every visitor to IBM.com has a productive, efficient and delightful experience.

> IBM.com is a collection of highly functional, versatile, and diverse contents and experiences. It serves different audience groups and their needs, in different industries and geographic regions, and covers crucial portion of our users' journeys.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
IBM.com is a collection of highly functional, versatile, and diverse content and experiences. It serves different audience groups and their needs, in different industries and geographic regions, and covers crucial portion of our users' journeys.
```

I don't believe content should be plural here

> IBM.com is a collection of highly functional, versatile, and diverse contents and experiences. It serves different audience groups and their needs, in different industries and geographic regions, and covers crucial portion of our users' journeys.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
IBM.com is a collection of highly functional, versatile, and diverse contents and experiences. It serves different audience groups and their needs, in different industries and geographic regions, and covers a crucial portion of our users' journeys.
```

Author: This suggestion was added separately. Thank you!

Here are the three principles that we set up to reach our vision of helping our users in the best way possible.

<Title>The experience is the product</Title>

> The user's experience along the journey—spanning from the user's initial research through decision making, purchase, management, and all the way to the actual use of the given product—is becoming a core aspect of any product. 

Reviewer: Suggestion to number the principles, might be nice for the user to follow.

Author: Thank you, added numbers.

<Row>
<Column colMd={12} colLg={12}>

![User journeys](./images/journey-non-linear.png)

</Column>
</Row>

<Title>Drive consistency around user intents</Title>

> As more products are offered as services or components of larger ecosystems and platforms, users are increasingly traversing journey touch points in non-linear ways, which demands a even higher level of consistency and coherency across.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As more products are offered as services or components of larger ecosystems and platforms, users are increasingly traversing journey touch points in non-linear ways, which demands a even higher level of consistency and coherency across journeys.
```

We drive consistency without sacrificing usability by basing the design of a page on the given user intent. For the same user intent, whether it's learning, trying, or buying, the solution should be consistent in order to accommodate the user's non-linear journey.

This does not mean that everything should be the same—IBM.com style models define foundational and structural elements, while leaving the details to you, the maker.

The ultimate end result is that the user should be instantly familiar with pages that solve similar problems.

> For the list of known user intents and their associated style models, see [Style Models].

Reviewer: Is this supposed to be a link? I don't see it in the staging site

<Title>Reflect users&rsquo; journeys</Title>

> As more products are offered as services or components of larger ecosystems and platforms, users are increasingly traversing journey touch points in non-linear ways, which demands a even higher level of consistency and coherency across.

Reviewer: Duplicate content, Wonil to provide update

<Row>
<Column colMd={12} colLg={12}>

![Reflecting journey progression](./images/journey-progression.png)

</Column>
</Row>

> ## Style Model

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Style models
```

> A style model defines the foundational structure and elements of a given page to best serve the primary user intent of the page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A style model defines the foundational structure and elements of a given page to best serve the primary user intent of that page.
```

> Each style model is based on the user intent for the given page and defines the most optimal use of the foundational design elements—grid, color theme, type scale, spacing, layout, and screen regions—to ensure that the user is successful in achieving the goals (user intent).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each style model is based on the user intent for a given page and defines the most optimal use of the foundational design elements—grid, color theme, type scale, spacing, layout, and screen regions—to ensure that the user is successful in achieving their goals (user intent).
```
